http://www.myinterviewworld.com/hadoop/questions_answers/learning/forum/1/1


What is the difference between a Hadoop database and Relational Database?
What is Hadoop framework?
On What concept the Hadoop framework works?
what is HDFS?
what is MAP REDUCE?
What Mapper does?
What is the InputSplit in map reduce software?
what is meaning Replication factor?
what is the default replication factor in HDFS?
Explain the WordCount implementation via Hadoop framework ?
Which interface needs to be implemented to create Mapper and Reducer for the Hadoop?
What is the InputFormat ?
How does Mappers run() method works?
what is the typical block size of an HDFS block?
what is a datanode?	
what is namenode?	
How does master slave architecture in the Hadoop?
What is compute and Storage nodes?
How does an Hadoop application look like or their basic components?
What are the restriction to the key and value class ?
Explain how input and output data format of the Hadoop framework?
Which object can be used to get the progress of a particular job ?
How can we control particular key should go in a specific reducer?
How many maps are there in a particular Job?
What is the use of Combiner?
What is the Reducer used for?
What are the primary phases of the Reducer?
Explain the shuffle?	
Explain the Reducer's reduce phase?
How many Reducers should be configured?
It can be possible that a Job has 0 reducers?
What happens if number of reducers are 0?
How many instances of JobTracker can run on a Hadoop Cluser?
Explain the Reducer?s Sort phase?
Explain the core methods of the Reducer?
What is next step after Mapper or MapTask?
How can you add the arbitrary key-value pairs in your mapper?
What is the use of Context object?
What happens if you don?t override the Mapper methods and keep them as it is?
Where do you specify the Mapper Implementation?	
How Mapper is instantiated in a running job?
What alternate way does HDFS provides to recover data in case a Namenode, without backup, fails and cannot be recovered?
What is the main difference between Java and C++?
What do you understand about Object Oriented Programming (OOP)? Use Java examples.
What are the main differences between versions 1.5 and version 1.6 of Java?
Describe what happens to a MapReduce job from submission to output?
How would you tackle counting words in several text documents?	
How will you write a custom partitioner for a Hadoop job?
How did you debug your Hadoop code ?
how would you modify that solution to only count the number of unique words in all the documents?