http://realiq.blogspot.in/2012/12/hadoop-interview-question.html 


Hadoop Interview Question
 Here are Some Hadoop Administration question you May expect.  answers you need to find.... :) i can give but i wont : if you find good answer share with me also :) hope you will right ? If you are not able to find let me know through comments i will post the answers too.


What is Hadoop? Brief about the components of  Hadoop.
What are the Hadoop daemon processes tell the components of Hadoop and functionality?
Tell steps for configuring Hadoop?
What is architecture of HDFS and flow?
Can we have more than one configuration setting for Hadoop cluster how can you switch between these configurations?
What will be your troubleshooting approach in Hadoop?
What are the exceptions you have come through while working on Hadoop, what was your approach for getting rid of those exceptions or errors?
 
How will you proceed if Namenode is down?
What will be your approach if Datanode is down?
How can you start the cluster?
How can you stop the cluster?
What is dfs.name.dir and dfs.data.dir is used for?
What is SSH?
What is password less SSH?
Why do we need password less SSH in Hadoop?
How can you transfer configuration files of Hadoop from one system to another system
Have you ever come across bind exception while configuring cluster? How you solved it? Why it comes
When do you get connection refused error? How can you solve this problem
Have you ever come across "no route to host" error? If yes how you solved?
What is socket timeout error? And where it effect in Hadoop cluster?
How unknown host errors make sense to you?
Could not replicate data have you ever come across this error if yes what is the probable reason behind it?
What is heap memory? How we use it in Hadoop cluster?
What is a zombie process in Linux?
What zero size file problem in Hadoop and what is the reason behind it?
What is over replicated, under replicated blocks give some scenarios
Have you ever come across " too many file open error"
How communication between clients-->Namenode->Datanode happens? Explain the steps by which file is send from client the HDFS.
what configuration settings will you implement for HBase and hive with Hadoop
Have you ever come across HMaster not running ?? If yes what was the reason and how you solved it?
What are the daemon processes for HBase?
What may be the problem behind region servers being not started.
How many way you can execute queries in hive?
Have you ever come across error when master initializes, but region servers do not. What solution did you synthesized from that?
What is the role of JVM in Hadoop
Have you heard about JPS command? How can you use it and what you need to install before using that command?
 How can you configure a client for HBase? If yes what were the settings you used?
What is zookeeper?
How we can load table in hive?
How can we start hive server?
What is thrift server?
Can you tell me basic syntax for connecting hive through JDBC ?
What are no SQL databases how they differ from relational database, what are the NSQL databases you know?
Have you ever come across java.lang.outofmemoryerror?
How will you check if Hadoop Daemons(Namenode, Datanode, Jobtracker, Tasktracker, and Secondrynamenode) are running?